Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory [12] and gated recurrent [7] neural networks
in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and
transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation [29, 2, 5]. Numerous
efforts have since continued to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder
architectures [31, 21, 13].
∗Equal contribution. Listing order is random. Jakob proposed replacing RNNs with self-attention and started
the effort to evaluate this idea. Ashish, with Illia, designed and implemented the first Transformer models and
has been crucially involved in every aspect of this work. Noam proposed scaled dot-product attention, multi-head
attention and the parameter-free position representation and became the other person involved in nearly every
detail. Niki designed, implemented, tuned and evaluated countless model variants in our original codebase and
tensor2tensor. Llion also experimented with novel model variants, was responsible for our initial codebase, and
efficient inference and visualizations. Lukasz and Aidan spent countless long days designing various parts of and
implementing tensor2tensor, replacing our earlier codebase, greatly improving results and massively accelerating
our research.
†Work performed while at Google Brain.
‡Work performed while at Google Research.
31st Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2017), Long Beach, CA, USA.
Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output
sequences. Aligning the positions to steps in computation time, they generate a sequence of hidden
states ht, as a function of the previous hidden state ht−1 and the input for position t. This inherently
sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer
sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples. Recent work has achieved
significant improvements in computational efficiency through factorization tricks [18] and conditional
computation [26], while also improving model performance in case of the latter. The fundamental
constraint of sequential computation, however, remains.
Attention mechanisms have become an integral part of compelling sequence modeling and transduction models in various tasks, allowing modeling of dependencies without regard to their distance in
the input or output sequences [2, 16]. In all but a few cases [22], however, such attention mechanisms
are used in conjunction with a recurrent network.
In this work we propose the Transformer, a model architecture eschewing recurrence and instead
relying entirely on an attention mechanism to draw global dependencies between input and output.
The Transformer allows for significantly more parallelization and can reach a new state of the art in
translation quality after being trained for as little as twelve hours on eight P100 GPUs.